Beta release (#56)
FBerthelot/component-test-utils: website/blog/2019-12-09-beta-release.md

---
title: Announcing Beta of component-test-utils
author: Florent Berthelot
authorURL: http://twitter.com/berthel350
---

> I've been working on this side-project for almost 1 year now and I think it's mature enough to pass another step: The Beta step !

Reviewer: `step!`

Reviewer 2: Pas fan de la repetition de step. Pourquoi pas:

`...I think it's mature enough to go onto the next step: the official Beta!`

> I've never communicated about this library except to my closest co-workers and friends. So let's starts this year by releasing it !

Reviewer: `it!`

## Why another testing library for react ?

> There are two actors for testing react components:

Reviewer: `React`

- [Enzyme](https://airbnb.io/enzyme/)
- [React-testing-library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library)

> They are great and I've used them on various projects, but I think there is a gap between which is not filled.

Reviewer: `between them`

Author: ```suggestion
They are great and I've used them on various projects, but I think there is a gap between which isn't filled.
```

I will listen my wife on this ^^

> Enzyme has an API that forces you to test components one by one, which is really great when you think about making unit tests small, independent, performant. However, when you handle multiple components, the enzyme API is not well designed for that. You will have to add multiple `.dive()`, the rendered HTML tree is not well represented except when calling `.debug()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enzyme has an API that forces you to test components one by one, which is really great when you think about making unit tests small, independent and performant. However, when handling multiple components, the enzyme API is not well designed for that. You will have to add multiple `.dive()` and the rendered HTML tree is not well represented except when calling `.debug()` function.
```

> React-testing-library is the opposite of Enzyme. On one hand, it forces you not to mock anything. This way, you will test some patterns like HoC very easily, but on the other hand it's not very performant. Imagine if you want to test a component that has many many many sub-components, you will have two solutions: to use a mocking system provided by a tierce library (jest ?) or to not care about the time your unit test will take.

Reviewer: Remplace `This way, you will test some patterns like HoC very easily` par `On one hand you can eeasily test some patterns like HoC,`

> React-testing-library is the opposite of Enzyme. On one hand, it forces you not to mock anything. This way, you will test some patterns like HoC very easily, but on the other hand it's not very performant. Imagine if you want to test a component that has many many many sub-components, you will have two solutions: to use a mocking system provided by a tierce library (jest ?) or to not care about the time your unit test will take.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React-testing-library is the opposite of Enzyme. On one hand, it forces you not to mock anything. This way, you will test some patterns like HoC very easily, but on the other hand it's not very performant. Imagine if you wanted to test a component that has many sub-components, you'd have two solutions: to use a mocking system provided by a third-party library (jest ?) or not to care about the time your unit test will take.
```

> With component-test-utils-react, you have a fine control where your mock starts and where it finishes. This way you won't have to handle many `.dive` in your app nor to deal with many mock `jest.mock('./anotherCmp', /**/)`.

Reviewer: `many mocks`

Here is an example of testing with component-test-utils:

```jsx
const LikeButton = props => {
  return <button {...props}>+</button>;
};

const LikeDisplayer = () => {
  const [nbLikes, setNbLikes] = React.useState(0);
  const clickHandler = () => setNbLikes(nbLikes + 1);
  return (
    <p>
      {nbLikes} Like <LikeButton onClick={clickHandler} />
    </p>
  );
};

const component = shallow(<LikeDisplayer />, {
  mocks: {
    LikeButton
  }
});

component.querySelector("button").dispatchEvent("click");

expect(component.html()).toBe(
  '<p>1 Like <LikeButton onClick="[clickHandler]"><button onClick="[clickHandler]">+</button></LikeButton></p>'
);
```

## Only react... for now !

> When I started Component-test-utils I designed the API for testing components whichever the Framework used.

Reviewer: `whatever framework you use.`

> But then why support only React ? Because, I had a very busy year 2019 with a lot of stuff to do like starting up my own company: WeFacto (there is no website for now). I've focused on React for now, in order to stabilize the API.

Reviewer: `React?`

> But then why support only React ? Because, I had a very busy year 2019 with a lot of stuff to do like starting up my own company: WeFacto (there is no website for now). I've focused on React for now, in order to stabilize the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But then why support only React ? Because, I had a very busy year 2019 with a lot of stuff to do like starting up my own company: WeFacto (there is no website for now). I've focused on React for the time being, in order to stabilize the API.
```

(Repetition)

Proof of concept already exists in Vue.JS and Angular, so it only demands some extra work to implement the API. Feel free to contribute by providing PR to boost the project's progression.

> ## What's now ?

Reviewer: Pas sûr de ce que tu veux dire, mais : `What's happening now?`

> Please, feel free to give a try to this library for your unit testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please, feel free to try out this library for your unit testing.
```

You can either directly follow the [getting started](/docs/getting-started) or if you don't know how to test components, you can start by checking out the [philosophy behind this API](/docs/philosophy).

I need feedback, so please feel free to give me yours on [my twitter](http://twitter.com/berthel350), or directly in the [Github issue](https://github.com/FBerthelot/component-test-utils/issues).

> Let's make tests easy together !

Reviewer: `together!`
